In this video, we'll figure out a slightly
simpler way to write the cost function
than we have been using so far.
And we'll also figure out how
to apply gradient descent
to fit the parameters
of logistic regression.
So, by the end of this,
video you know how to implement a fully
working version of logistic regression.
Here's our cost function for
logistic regression.
Our overall cost function is 1 over m
times the sum over the trading set of
the cost of making different predictions
on the different examples of labels y i.
And this is the cost of a single
example that we worked out earlier.
And just want to remind you that for
classification problems in our training
sets, and in fact even for examples,
now that our training set y is
always equal to zero or one, right?
That's sort of part of
the mathematical definition of y.
Because y is either zero or
one, we'll be able to come up with
a simpler way to write this cost function.
And in particular,
rather than writing out this cost function
on two separate lines with two separate
cases, so y equals one and y equals zero.
I'm going to show you a way
to take these two lines and
compress them into one equation.
And this would make it more convenient
to write out a cost function and
derive gradient descent.
Concretely, we can write out
the cost function as follows.
We say that cost of H(x), y.
I'm gonna write this as -y
times log h(x)- (1-y)
times log (1-h(x)).
And I'll show you in a second that
this expression, no, this equation,
is an equivalent way, or more compact way,
of writing out this definition of
the cost function that we have up here.
Let's see why that's the case.
We know that there are only
two possible cases.
Y must be zero or one.
So let's suppose Y equals one.
If y is equal to 1, than this equation
is saying that the cost is equal to,
well if y is equal to 1,
then this thing here is equal to 1.
And 1 minus y is going to be equal to 0,
right.
So if y is equal to 1, then 1 minus
y is 1 minus 1, which is therefore 0.
So the second term gets
multiplied by 0 and goes away.
And we're left with only this first term,
which is y times log- y times log (h(x)).
Y is 1 so that's equal to -log h(x).
And this equation is exactly what
we have up here for if y = 1.
The other case is if y = 0.
And if that's the case, then our writing
of the cos function is saying that,
well, if y is equal to 0, then this
term here would be equal to zero.
Whereas 1 minus y,
if y is equal to zero would be equal to 1,
because 1 minus y becomes 1 minus
zero which is just equal to 1.
And so the cost function simplifies
to just this last term here, right?
Because the fist term over here gets
multiplied by zero, and so it disappears,
and so it's just left with this last term,
which is -log (1- h(x)).
And you can verify that this term
here is just exactly what we had for
when y is equal to 0.
So this shows that this definition for
the cost is just a more compact way
of taking both of these expressions,
the cases y =1 and y = 0,
and writing them in a more
convenient form with just one line.
We can therefore write all
our cost functions for
logistic regression as follows.
It is this 1 over m of the sum
of these cost functions.
And plugging in the definition for
the cost that we worked out earlier,
we end up with this.
And we just put the minus sign outside.
And why do we choose
this particular function,
while it looks like there could be other
cost functions we could have chosen.
Although I won't have time to go into
great detail of this in this course,
this cost function can be
derived from statistics
using the principle of maximum
likelihood estimation.
Which is an idea in statistics for
how to efficiently find parameters'
data for different models.
And it also has a nice
property that it is convex.
So this is the cost function that
essentially everyone uses when
fitting logistic regression models.
If you don't understand the terms that
I just said, if you don't know what
the principle of maximum likelihood
estimation is, don't worry about it.
But it's just a deeper rationale and
justification
behind this particular cost function than
I have time to go into in this class.
Given this cost function,
in order to fit the parameters, what we're
going to do then is try to find the
parameters theta that minimize J of theta.
So if we try to minimize this, this would
give us some set of parameters theta.
Finally, if we're given a new example with
some set of features x, we can then take
the thetas that we fit to our training
set and output our prediction as this.
And just to remind you, the output of
my hypothesis I'm going to interpret as
the probability that y is equal to one.
And given the input x and
parameterized by theta.
But just, you can think of this as just my
hypothesis as estimating the probability
that y is equal to one.
So all that remains to be done is figure
out how to actually minimize J of theta
as a function of theta so
that we can actually fit
the parameters to our training set.
The way we're going to minimize the cost
function is using gradient descent.
Here's our cost function and if we want
to minimize it as a function of theta,
here's our usual template for
graded descent where we repeatedly
update each parameter by taking,
updating it as itself minus learning
ray alpha times this derivative term.
If you know some calculus, feel free
to take this term and try to compute
the derivative yourself and see if you can
simplify it to the same answer that I get.
But even if you don't know
calculus don't worry about it.
If you actually compute this,
what you get is this equation,
and just write it out here.
It's sum from i equals one through m
of essentially the error times xij.
So if you take this partial derivative
term and plug it back in here,
we can then write out our gradient
descent algorithm as follows.
And all I've done is I took the derivative
term for the previous slide and
plugged it in there.
So if you have n features,
you would have a parameter vector theta,
which with parameters theta 0,
theta 1, theta 2, down to theta n.
And you will use this update
to simultaneously update all
of your values of theta.
Now, if you take this update rule and
compare it to what we were doing for
linear regression.
You might be surprised to realize that,
well,
this equation was exactly what we had for
linear regression.
In fact,
if you look at the earlier videos, and
look at the update rule, the Gradient
Descent rule for linear regression.
It looked exactly like what I
drew here inside the blue box.
So are linear regression and logistic
regression different algorithms or not?
Well, this is resolved by observing
that for logistic regression,
what has changed is that the definition
for this hypothesis has changed.
So as whereas for linear regression,
we had h(x) equals theta transpose X,
now this definition of h(x) has changed.
And is instead now one over one
plus e to the negative transpose x.
So even though the update rule
looks cosmetically identical,
because the definition of
the hypothesis has changed,
this is actually not the same thing as
gradient descent for linear regression.
In an earlier video, when we were
talking about gradient descent for
linear regression, we had talked about how
to monitor a gradient descent to make sure
that it is converging.
I usually apply that same
method to logistic regression,
too to monitor a gradient descent,
to make sure it's converging correctly.
And hopefully,
you can figure out how to apply that
technique to logistic regression yourself.
When implementing logistic
regression with gradient descent,
we have all of these
different parameter values,
theta zero down to theta n, that we
need to update using this expression.
And one thing we could do is have a for
loop.
So for i equals zero to n, or
for i equals one to n plus one.
So update each of these
parameter values in turn.
But of course rather than using a for
loop,
ideally we would also use
a vector rise implementation.
So that a vector rise implementation
can update all of these m plus
one parameters all in one fell swoop.
And to check your own understanding, you
might see if you can figure out how to do
the vector rise implementation
with this algorithm as well.
So, now you you know how to implement
gradient descents for logistic regression.
There was one last idea that we
had talked about earlier, for
linear regression,
which was feature scaling.
We saw how feature scaling can help
gradient descent converge faster for
linear regression.
The idea of feature scaling also
applies to gradient descent for
logistic regression.
And yet we have features that are on very
different scale, then applying feature
scaling can also make grading descent
run faster for logistic regression.
So that's it, you now know how to
implement logistic regression and
this is a very powerful, and
probably the most widely used,
classification algorithm in the world.
And you now know how we get it to work for
yourself.